# PowerShell Module Template

My PowerShell module project template, for use with [Plaster](https://github.com/PowerShell/Plaster).

This template sets up a number of things to make getting started with authoring a new PowerShell module much less time consuming, while following best practices around organising source code, unit testing and documentation. On top of a basic project structure, it also has a number of build tasks setup and some extra things like VS Code tasks already configured.

This is the result of me seeing how a number of other projects and people organise their modules, and then tweaking/simplifying things to my liking.

## Using The Template

To create a new PowerShell module project with this template, download/clone this repository into a folder and then run...

```powershell
Invoke-Plaster -TemplatePath <PathToFolder> -DestinationPath <PathForNewProject>
```

You will then have a newly scaffolded PowerShell module project to start work on.

## Dependencies

- [Plaster](https://github.com/PowerShell/Plaster), for scaffolding the new module project.
- [PSScriptAnalyzer](https://github.com/PowerShell/PSScriptAnalyzer), for linting and styling of PowerShell code.
- [Pester](https://github.com/pester/Pester), for unit testing.
- [platyPS](https://github.com/PowerShell/platyPS), for generating external help files.
- [Invoke-Build](https://github.com/nightroman/Invoke-Build), for build automation.
- [New-VSCodeTask](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/New-VSCodeTask), for automatically generating VS Code tasks from Invoke-Build tasks.

## How It Works

When invoked, Plaster reads the ```plasterManifest.xml``` file to scaffold a new module project. The Plaster manifest XML file declaratively describes the content and creation process for the new project. Take a look at the [plasterManifest.xml](plasterManifest.xml) file to see how it generates the output shown below.

For more information on Plaster manifests and how they work, head over to the [Plaster docs](https://github.com/PowerShell/Plaster/blob/master/docs/en-US/about_Plaster_CreatingAManifest.help.md).


## Output Example

```
MyNewModule
|
|---.vscode
|       settings.json
|       tasks.json
|
|---docs
|   
|---src
|   |---docs
|   |   |---en-US
|   |   |       about_MyNewModule.md
|   |   |       Add-YourFirstFunction.md
|   |
|   |---private
|   |       Add-PrivateFunction.ps1
|   |
|   |---public
|   |       Add-YourFirstFunction.ps1
|   |
|   |   MyNewModule.psd1
|   |   MyNewModule.psm1
|
|---tests
|   |---private
|   |       Add-PrivateFunction.Tests.ps1
|   |
|   |---public
|   |       Add-YourFirstFunction.Tests.ps1
|   |
|   |   _InitializeTests.ps1
|   |   MyNewModule.Manifest.Tests.ps1
|
|   .gitignore
|   LICENSE
|   MyNewModule.Build.ps1
|   PSScriptAnalyzerSettings.psd1
|   README.md
```

## Output Details

### **.vscode**
Contains Visual Studio Code workspace settings and task definitions.

- *```settings.json```* - Overrides editor settings for tab indents and whitespace.  
- *```tasks.json```* - Generated by ```New-VSCodeTask``` script so Invoke-Build tasks are available as VS Code tasks. 

### **docs**
Directory for project documentation as per GitHub convention, separate from the module's own documentation.

### **src**
Contains all source code for the PowerShell module.

- ***```docs\en-US```*** - Contains markdown sources for module documentation.
  - *```about_MyNewModule.md```* - platyPS template for PowerShell's 'about' help topic.
  - *```Add-YourFirstFunction.md```* - platyPS template for the example public function's help document.
- ***```private```*** - Contains sources for all private module functions.
  - *```Add-PrivateFunction.ps1```* - Example private module function.
- ***```public```*** - Contains sources for all public module functions.
  - *```Add-YourFirstFunction.ps1```* - Example public module function.
- *```MyNewModule.psd1```* - PowerShell module manifest file.
- *```MyNewModule.psm1```* - PowerShell root module file.

### **tests**
Contains all Pester tests for the module.

- ***```private```*** - Contains Pester tests for private module functions.
  - *```Add-PrivateFunction.Tests.ps1```* - Example Pester test for example private module function.
- ***```public```*** - Contains Pester tests for public module functions.
  - *```Add-YourFirstFunction.Tests.ps1```* - Example Pester test for example public module function.
- *```_InitializeTests.ps1```* - Common initialize script that can be dot sourced into individual Pester test files.
- *```MyNewModule.Manifest.Tests.ps1```* - Pester test file for the PowerShell module's manifest file.

### ***/***

- *```.gitignore```* - Ignore file for Git.
- *```LICENSE```* - MIT license document.
- *```MyNewModule.Build.ps1```* - Invoke-Build script, containing task definitions.
- *```PSScriptAnalyzerSettings.psd1```* - Settings file for PSScriptAnalyzer.
- *```README.md```* - Project readme file.


## Contributions

Although this template is built to my own preferences, any contributions or suggestions for improvements would be very welcomed!